## Summary

[PeerJ](https://peerj.org/) is an open access publisher of 7 peer-reviewed journals, and an editorial community of over 2000 Academic Editors and Advisors, and tens of thousands of authors and reviewers.

## Evaluation model

PeerJ's editorial model is based on post-publication peer review history transparency, with peer review history dates and formal decisions made available on publication. When a manuscript is accepted for publication, reviewers have the option to sign their review, and authors have the option to publish the full peer review history alongside their paper. More than 80% of authors make their peer review publicly available, and around 40% of reviewers choose to sign their review.

Launched in 2013, PeerJ Preprints published over 5000 preprints. The rise in popularity of bioRxiv and other preprints servers meant the academic community was well-served with alternative preprint venue options, and led to the decision to cease accepting new submissions to PeerJ Preprints at the end of 2019. All preprints remain readable and downloadable at [peerj.com/preprints](https://peerj.com/preprints). PeerJ continues to work with preprint servers to facilitate direct submissions to our journals, as well as continuing to encourage, via our [Contributions](https://peerj.com/about/FAQ/academic-contribution/) system, uptake of open review and open Q&A on our articles.

## PReF

Sciety uses the PReF (preprint review features) descriptors to describe key elements of each Group's evaluation activities, helping readers to interpret and compare their evaluations.
[Learn more](https://asapbio.org/developing-a-taxonomy-to-describe-preprint-review-processes).

<dl class="group-page-pref">
    <dt>Review requested by</dt>
    <dd>Authors</dd>
    <dt>Reviewer selected by</dt>
    <dd>Editor, service, or community</dd>
    <dt>Public interaction</dt>
    <dd>No</dd>
    <dt>Inclusion of author response</dt>
    <dd>Yes</dd>
    <dt>Decision</dt>
    <dd>Binary decision</dd>
    <dt>Review coverage</dt>
    <dd>Complete paper</dd>
    <dt>Reviewer identity known to</dt>
    <dd>Editor or service</dd>
    <dt>Competing interests</dt>
    <dd>Checked</dd>
</dl>

## People

Read more about [PeerJ](https://peerj.com/academic-boards/editors/peerj/).

## Content license

Public user content licensed CC BY 4.0 unless otherwise specified.
