# 3a. Creation of Sciety Bonfire extension

## At the start:
- Completed initial research on the required Bonfire work.
- Met with Mark on several occasions to discuss objectives and the scope of work.
- Met with the Bonfire dev team to discuss and understand API solutions they are currently providing.

## Delivered code using an iterative process:
- Assessed the next smallest user visible deliverable by performing story mapping exercise.
- Codesigned with the designer appropriate UI solutions.
- Delivered small, incremental changes using TDD approach.
- Once all test pass, code is in maintainable shape and the UI changes are approved, we planned next deliverable.

In doing so, we completed the below:

### 'Allow all Sciety visitors to start a discussion on Sciety Discussions Bonfire Instance'

- Made Sciety Bonfire Discussions known to all Sciety users by providing CTA on all article pages.
- Ensured completed work follows accessibility standards.
- Made sure new feature matches current design of the Sciety application.

[#4059](https://github.com/sciety/sciety/issues/4059)

### 'Hard code "Join" button for one article'

- Tested out a concept to make it known to Sciety users if there is an ongoing discussion on the Sciety Bonfire instance.
- We picked one Sciety article that had an ongoing discussion on the Bonfire.
- Built logic around being able to show one of the possible CTAs to the user.

[#4070](https://github.com/sciety/sciety/issues/4070)

### 'Un-hardcode the "join the discussion button" for one specific article'

- Researched and tested out the API provided by Bonfire.
- Designed several possible solutions how to utilise data available via API.
- Built small design up front to understand where to intervene in the Sciety code.
- Built and tested a query that connects to the Bonfire API.
- Wrote logic to be able to appropriately handle response from the API.
- Proved successful connection between sciety.org and discussions.sciety.org.
- Identified next research questions for the Bonfire dev team, concerning API capabilities.

[#4069](https://github.com/sciety/sciety/issues/4069)
